JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: major
breakthroughs
in Iran's relationships with the
United States.
We examine the prisoner release,
new missile
sanctions, and implementation of
the nuclear
deal.
Then: reviewing the final
Democratic primary
debate before Iowa, and more
news from the
trail with only two weeks left
until voting
begins.
And methane gas from a leaking
pipe overtakes
a Southern Californian town,
forcing residents
to flee.
PAULA CRACIUM, President, Porter
Ranch Neighborhood
Council: There's this enormous
stain on the
community right now caused by
this leak, and
a stain that's not going to go
away the day
after the leak's fixed,
unfortunately.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Washington and
Tehran faced
each other in a new light today,
but it was
clear that decades of division
will not disappear
overnight.
The latest point of dispute: new
sanctions
that appeared, even as old ones
melted away.
Hari Sreenivasan begins our
coverage.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The new
sanctions aimed
at Iran's ballistic missile
program sparked
fresh criticism from Tehran,
after a weekend
of milder words.
HOSSEIN JABERI ANSARI, Iranian
Foreign Ministry:
The Islamic republic of Iran, as
it has made
clear in the past, will respond
to such acts
of propaganda and harassment by
following
its legitimate missile program
more seriously
and boosting its defensive and
national security
capabilities.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The limited
sanctions announced
Sunday followed a missile test
in October
that violated a United Nations
ban. Far more
sweeping sanctions are ending,
after Saturday's
announcement that Iran's nuclear
program has
complied with a landmark
agreement.
President Obama hailed the
accord's formal
implementation in a Sunday
appearance at the
White House.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Under the nuclear deal that we,
our allies
and partners reached with Iran
last year,
Iran will not get its hands on a
nuclear bomb.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Under the
agreement, Iranian
technicians removed the reactor
core at the
Arak nuclear site, effectively
ending its
production of plutonium for a
possible weapon.
The regime also cut the number
of centrifuges
at its Fordow and Natanz sites
for enriching
uranium. And it shipped tons of
low-enriched
uranium materials to Russia.
As the nuclear deal came to full
power, Iran
released four imprisoned
Iranian-Americans.
They include Washington Post
reporter Jason
Rezaian, former U.S. Marine Amir
Hekmati,
and Pastor Saeed Abedini.
Rezaian, Hekmati
and Abedini are now undergoing
physical and
psychological evaluations at the
U.S. military's
Landstuhl Regional Medical
Center in Germany.
Family members gathered there
today to be
reunited.
Rezaian's brother was among
them.
ALI REZAIAN, Brother of Jason
Rezaian: Jason
is in good spirits. He obviously
is concerned
to make sure that he works hard
to get better.
But he is also the same guy. He
is not too
depressed. He really seems to be
in a good
state of mind.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also released
in the deal,
Nosratollah Khosravi-Roodsari,
who opted to
remain in Iran, and, separately,
a detained
student, Matthew Trevithick, who
returned
home Sunday to Boston.
In exchange, the U.S. Justice
Department is
releasing seven Iranians being
held in the
U.S. and dismissing charges
against 14 fugitives.
The swap went through despite
last week's
seizure of 10 American sailors
by Iran in
the Persian Gulf.
Secretary of State John Kerry
acknowledged
today he'd been angry and
frustrated by Iran's
action. But both he and
President Obama say
the new improved relations with
Iran helped
resolve it quickly.
BARACK OBAMA: Some folks here in
Washington
rushed to declare that it was
the start of
another hostage crisis. Instead,
we worked
directly with the Iranian
government and secured
the release of our sailors in
less than 24
hours.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now the focus
turns back
to the nuclear deal and
inspections to ensure
Iran's compliance. The head of
the U.N. nuclear
watchdog met today with
President Hassan Rouhani
to discuss a way forward.
Meanwhile, as sanctions end,
it's been widely
reported the Islamic republic
will see a windfall
of up to $150 billion. Secretary
Kerry said
today it's actually closer to
half or a third
of that amount. The end of
sanctions also
means Iran will pump more oil.
The government
announced today it's ramping up
production
by 500,000 barrels a day.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will have a
full analysis
of all of this after the news
summary.
Two Iranian poets who faced
heavy prison terms
have fled the country. Fatemeh
Ekhtesari and
Mehdi Mousavi told the
Associated Press that
they escaped, but declined to
say where. The
pair had been convicted of
anti-government
propaganda and -- quote --
"insulting sanctities."
In addition to prison terms,
they'd been sentenced
to 99 lashes for shaking hands
with the opposite
sex.
Security forces in Iraq fanned
out across
part of Baghdad today, after
three Americans
disappeared over the weekend.
Iraqi officials
said they were kidnapped on
Friday and taken
to the heavily Shiite
neighborhood known as
Sadr City.
A key Sunni figure strongly
condemned the
growing wave of abductions.
SHEIKH ABDUL-LATIF AL-HIMAIM,
Sunni Religious
Endowments (through translator):
We reject
any kidnap operation. We fully
support the
government, stability and
security. We absolutely
condemn and reject anyone who
violates the
law and disturbs security and
stability. We
denounce outlawed acts and
kidnappings. Such
acts are rejected from any
party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: An Iraqi lawmaker
said the
missing Americans worked for a
private company.
The U.S. Embassy didn't identify
them or say
what they were doing in Iraq.
In Afghanistan, a second round
of talks unfolded
in Kabul, aimed at ending the
war with the
Taliban. Officials from
Afghanistan, Pakistan,
China and the United States
gathered to lay
the groundwork for future
negotiations, and
called for the Taliban to step
up.
SALAHUDDIN RABBANI, Afghani High
Peace Council
(through translator): Any delay
by the Taliban
at the negotiating table will
isolate them
more in the eyes of the Afghan
people. Those
who missed the chance to join
the peace process
clearly proved that they do not
want an Afghanistan
with sovereignty, independence,
stability
and welfare and their aim is
insurgency and
destruction.
JUDY WOODRUFF: An earlier
attempt at negotiations
collapsed last summer.
In Great Britain, lawmakers
debated today
whether Republican U.S.
presidential candidate
Donald Trump should be banned
from their country.
The House of Commons took up the
topic after
more than 500,000 people signed
a petition
to bar Trump. It's a response to
his call
to stop Muslims from entering
the United States.
Back in this country, an Arctic
air mass brought
bitter cold to parts of the
Upper Midwest,
and pushed east. Temperatures
sat in the single
digits or below zero in
Wisconsin, Michigan
and Illinois. Much of Minnesota,
meanwhile,
saw windchills today between
minus-20 and
minus-40. Streets in Minneapolis
were left
nearly bare, except for a
heavily bundled-up
few who braved the cold.
This Martin Luther King holiday
brought an
air of change, especially in
Columbia, South
Carolina. Crowds marked the day
for the first
time since the Confederate Flag
was removed
from the state capitol grounds.
In Washington, FBI Director
James Comey laid
a wreath at the King Memorial,
and called
for both police and minorities
to put aside
distrust.
JAMES COMEY, FBI Director: We
have to also
understand that all of us, law
enforcement
and non-law enforcement, carry
with us implicit
biases. We react differently to
a face that
looks different than our own. We
have to stare
at that and own that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For their part,
President and
Mrs. Obama visited an elementary
school in
Washington, where they planted
gardens and
gave books and supplies to needy
students.
Wall Street was closed for the
holiday, but
oil prices slipped below $29 as
Iran increased
its output. Meanwhile, French
President Francois
Hollande declared a state of
economic and
social emergency. He announced a
$2.2 billion
plan to jump-start jobs and
growth.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, French
President (through
translator): In a country
capable of facing
the most horrible challenges
such as terrorism,
a country plagued by high levels
of unemployment,
it must be capable of reforming
itself, creating
a solid and demanding economic
and social
system and belief in progress.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also today, the
value of the
Russian ruble fell again, this
time to an
all-time low.
And a passing of note. Rock
musician Glenn
Frey died today in New York,
after a long
illness. The guitarist
co-founded the Eagles
with drummer Don Henley in the
early 1970s,
and together, they wrote such
hits as "Hotel
California" and "Life in the
Fast Lane." Glenn
Frey was 67 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
what could
be a new era in Iranian
relations and prisoners
freed with Iran's sanctions
lifted; Democrats
battle it out just two weeks
before Iowa;
California's methane leak that's
gone on for
nearly three months; and much
more.
California's methane leak that's
gone on for
nearly three months; and much
more.
As we have reported, the former
Iranian-American
prisoners returning to the
United States are
now at a military base in
Landstuhl, Germany.
My colleague Jeffrey Brown picks
up the story
from there.
JEFFREY BROWN: I'm joined by
U.s. Representative
Dan Kildee, who is in Landstuhl,
Germany,
tonight, after meeting with Amir
Hekmati.
He is the former U.S. Marine who
was released
by from Iran on Saturday after
four-plus years
of imprisonment. Congressman
Kildee represents
Hekmati's home district in
Michigan and has
long worked for his release.
And thanks so much for joining
us.
So, you met with Amir Hekmati
today. Tell
us about the meeting. What was
his condition?
REP. DAN KILDEE (D), Michigan:
Well, first
of all, it was a great day.
It was the first time I had
actually ever
met Amir Hekmati, despite the
fact that I
have been working on his case
for so long
and feel like I have come to
know him. I gave
him a great big hug, told him
how proud I
was of him.
And really we spent time
together just talking
and chatting. He told me a
little bit about
the time he was in prison. But,
mostly, we
just talked about how great it
is for him
to be free. We had dinner
together tonight
with his two sisters and his
brother-in-law.
He looks pretty good, for a guy
who has spent
the last four-and-a-half years
in one of the
worst prisons in the world.
You would expect him to not look
so strong.
He's lost some weight, at least
according
to what we can tell from the
pictures. I hadn't
met him before. He looks
thinner. But he looks
good. And he sounds strong. It
will take time
for him to come back home and be
fully reintegrated,
but I think is he in good shape.
JEFFREY BROWN: We have a
photograph Amir Hekmati
in the prison in Iran. It was
provided to
us by Maziar Bahari, a
journalist and former
prisoner there.
And there were reports even in
recent days
of Amir being treated for a
medical condition.
What did he tell you about his
treatment there
and his medical condition?
REP. DAN KILDEE: Yes, it was
tough. Any time
you are not able to move around
-- and he
is a young, athletic guy -- it
has a -- it
takes a physical toll.
And not being able to exercise,
as he had
become accustomed, I think, had
an effect
on his health. It has been a
tough four-and-a-half
years. He was in solitary
confinement for
a part of it. For a number of
months, he was
facing a death sentence. So, the
physical
strain, but also the
psychological impact
of that kind of an experience
obviously is
tough.
But I was impressed by his
spirit. He's anxious
to get back home and restart his
life. He's
a young man. He's got a long
future ahead
of him. You know, and, again,
he's got a whole
community that loves him, and is
looking forward
to help him -- welcoming him
back home and
helping him restart his life.
JEFFREY BROWN: Was he aware and,
for that
matter, Congressman, were you
aware of the
negotiations? Did he know how
close he was
to a release or that this might
be in the
works?
REP. DAN KILDEE: Well, he had
heard that it
might happen a few days before.
But he had
heard that before. So I think he
put it in
that same context.
And what he told me, it wasn't
until he was
actually taken to the airport
that he knew
that this time it was going to
be different.
I had been in contact, of
course, with the
State Department and the White
House for the
last few years working on this.
And we had
a sense that things were getting
close through
the discussions that we had.
But these situations are always
delicate until
they happen. And so obviously we
were just
absolutely thrilled when we
discovered that,
yes, this time, he's actually
coming home.
JEFFREY BROWN: And let may ask
you finally,
you know there are critics of
the swap aspect
of the deal, people who think
that the U.S.
should have demanded
unconditional release
of the prisoners in Iran. What
is your response?
REP. DAN KILDEE: Well, in a
perfect world,
we would get everything we want.
We would
have our way and we would hold
everybody else
to the standards that we would
like to hold
ourselves to. But we don't live
in a perfect
world.
And I look at Amir Hekmati
coming home, and
I understand that we had to do a
lot. We had
to fight to get him home. When I
sat with
Amir Hekmati and had dinner with
him tonight,
it was absolutely clear to me
that it was
consistent with our American
principles to
get him home.
And I think any critic of this
really has
to ask themselves whether or not
they're living
in the world that we live in or
the one they
would like to live in. The
people who are
in positions of authority
actually have to
get things done. And I commend
the president,
the secretary of state and
others who worked
on this.
It's a happy day, and I'm
thrilled about it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Congressman Dan
Kildee of Michigan
from Landstuhl, Germany, thank
you so much.
REP. DAN KILDEE: Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: And now we get
the perspective
from one of the
Iranian-Americans released
by the United States as part of
this deal.
For that, I am joined by
attorney Joel Androphy,
the attorney for Bahram
Mechanic, a dual U.S.-Iranian
national who co-owns companies
in Houston
and in Iran. Mechanic was
accused of selling
millions of dollars of
electronics to Iran
that aided the country's nuclear
program.
He was granted a full pardon and
released
from prison yesterday.
Attorney Androphy is in Houston.
Thank you so much for joining
us.
It has been reported that you
were contacted
even months ago by an Iranian
official to
ask about the possibility of
this kind of
deal for your client. Is that
correct? And
what was said?
JOEL ANDROPHY, Attorney for
Bahram Mechanic:
Yes.
For the last four or five
months, my associate
and I have been trying to get a
visa to go
to Iran and investigate our
case. And we were
told to deal with the Iranian
consul in Washington,
D.C., and we have been pursuing
that with
them. And about two months ago,
the head of
legal affairs contacted Rachael
Thompson and
myself and told us that there
was a possibility,
only at that time a possibility,
that we were
involved in a prisoner exchange
that had been
advertised throughout the press.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, so that
means Mr. Mechanic
knew that this deal was in the
works. What
was his reaction over the
weekend?
JOEL ANDROPHY: Well, this was a
couple of
months ago that this happened.
Things transpired
after that that gave us more
convincing thought
that we were part of the deal.
Two months ago, it was a
possibility. It was
like a lottery ticket. About 10
days ago,
the same council people, the
head of legal
affairs came down and told us
that it was
going to become more of a
reality. He didn't
know the timing of it. He
thought it could
be within the next 60 days, but
he gave us
pretty good assurances that we
were on the
list and that we would be
exchanged for Americans
held in Iran.
JEFFREY BROWN: Mr. Mechanic
has...
JOEL ANDROPHY: It wasn't
until...
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. I'm sorry.
Go ahead.
JOEL ANDROPHY: It wasn't until
last Wednesday
that we got confirmation that it
was going
to happen right away.
The U.S. attorney's office in
Houston got
confirmation from the attorney
general and
the president of the United
States. And they
were told to contact us to
communicate to
our client the fact that the
president was
giving him a pardon.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let me ask you.
Mr. Mechanic
has maintained his innocence all
along. Is
his claim that none of the
technology he sold
to Iran was used for military
purposes, or
that it didn't defy any of the
sanctions?
What exactly?
JOEL ANDROPHY: Well, first of
all, we didn't
sell any -- his company has
never sold anything
to Iran.
His company is on the black
list. His company
is not allowed to do business in
Iran with
the Iranian government or the
Iranian police.
So any allegations made like
that were basically
false. And allegations were made
to what's
called the International FISA
Court.
There's a court called the FISA
Court. It's
Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance court. And
they go make application to that
court to
get a warrant to do surveillance
on somebody.
And in order to get that
warrant, they lied.
They lied to the secret judge
who gave them
a secret warrant to get secret
information.
And it was all built on lies,
because he doesn't
do business with the Iranian
government.
JEFFREY BROWN: Is he planning --
what are
his plans now? Will he stay in
the United
States? Will he continue to run
the Iranian
company?
JOEL ANDROPHY: Well, he plans to
stay in the
United States and run his
business here.
He has a very successful
business here that
sells similar products to his
Iranian company.
The business here sells to
businesses in the
United States. The Iranian
company sells to
consumers in Iran. It has a
storefront. And
they're two different
businesses. But they
market similar products.
And they're all legal products.
And they have
nothing to do with national
security or anything
like that. These are surge
protectors that
everybody has on their computers
that you
could buy at Wal-Mart, you could
buy at any
store. You can go online and buy
these type
of apparatus.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Joel
Androphy, attorney
for Bahram Mechanic, thank you
so much.
JOEL ANDROPHY: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: For what all the
weekend's
developments on Iran mean for
the future of
U.S.-Iran relations and Iran's
role in the
region, I'm joined now by Robin
Wright. She
writes for "The New Yorker." Her
former research
assistant at the Woodrow Wilson
International
Center was one of the Americans
released by
the Iranians.
Ray Takeyh, he was a senior
adviser on Iran
at the State Department during
President Obama's
first term. He's now a senior
fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations.
Reuel Gerecht,
he's a former case officer at
the CIA. He's
now a senior fellow with the
Foundation for
the Defense of Democracies. And
Karim Sadjadpour,
he's a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace.
And we welcome all of you to the
program.
So, let me -- let's -- let me
ask you first
about this release -- and I will
start with
you, Karim -- of these five
Iranian-Americans.
Was this inevitable, given the
fact that this
nuclear deal was being
concluded? Was it just
going to happen?
KARIM SADJADPOUR, Carnegie
Endowment For International
Peace: The timing wasn't
inevitable, but I
think at some point, after
three, four years
in prison, it was inevitable
that these folks
were going to be released.
And I think it's important to
note that there
still is an Iranian-American in
Evin prison
in Tehran, Siamak Namazi. It is
a very important
case because is he someone who
has been an
energy consultant. He is very
well-known by
international corporations.
And I think as people see Iran,
the sanctions
have now been lifted, they are
looking to
do business with Iran. Siamak's
case is an
important one, because I think
that is going
to continue to deter companies
from doing
business in Iran.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Reuel Gerecht,
how do you see
the decision on Iran's part to
release these
people?
REUEL MARC GERECHT, Senior
Fellow, Foundation
for the Defense of Democracies:
Well, I think
the first thing you have to say
is, it is
a renewable pool. They can
release hostages
and take more.
Hostage-taking is as old as the
Islamic Republic.
So, I don't think that this
exchange is strategically
very astute. I think the notion
of trading
essentially innocent Americans
who were seized
in Iran and allowing individuals
who were
convicted of sanctions
violations, who were
aiding, abetting illicitly the
Iranian nuclear
program and otherwise engaging
in what you
might call technical espionage
isn't wise.
And I think dropping people from
Interpol,
it sets a very, very bad
precedent. And I'm
sure the Iranians will abuse it
in the future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Robin, how do you
see this
swap?
ROBIN WRIGHT, Senior Fellow,
U.S. Institute
of Peace: Well, I think both the
nuclear agreement
and the prisoner swap are
probably very important
developments in what has been a
fraught relationship
now for four decades.
It wasn't perfect, but prisoner
swaps, spy
swaps have gone on through the
ages. It's
not something new or different.
Many of those
who were released by the United
States were
convicted of crimes that are no
longer technically
illegal. So, it wasn't at a huge
cost.
The bigger picture, I think, is
really important
when it comes to what kind of
cooperation
we might have with Iran and
others, notably
Syria. Peace talks begin this
month, and that
is the next big challenge we
face on whether
we can really do business with
Iran or not.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I want to ask
you all about
that.
But, Ray Takeyh, what about this
decision
to swap these Iranian-Americans
in prison
for the Iranians in the U.S.?
RAY TAKEYH, Former State
Department Official:
The issue of American hostages
always exercises
an emotive burden, emotional
burden on any
U.S. president.
And it did so with Ronald Reagan
when he essentially
traded arms for American
hostages in Lebanon.
I think, as this deal unfolds,
you begin to
see the humanitarian aspects of
it and the
possible emotional burden it
imposes on the
president.
But as you step back from it, in
hindsight,
you begin to see the problematic
aspects of
it, which I think we all alluded
to. For one
thing, it violates the
administration's own
red line. They had suggested
that all these
prisoners have to be released
immediately,
which is another way of saying
unconditionally.
And, essentially, then you see a
trade take
place.
And, also, money changed hands.
So the components
of a deal are problematic, but
the humanitarian
aspect of it are quite American.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You are saying
money changed
hands over these prisoners?
RAY TAKEYH: Well, there is a
report of $1.7
billion going into some accounts
that Iran
had going back to shah's time
because of the
disputed -- because of the
military sales
and contracts and so forth.
So, that could be another aspect
of this deal.
But even if you just look at it
from a prisoner-to-citizen
hostage swap, it has problematic
aspects to
it, but you have to juxtapose
that to the
humanitarian aspects of it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does it say,
Karim, about
the balance of power in Tehran,
about -- you
know, we are told there is the
very conservative
faction and the more moderate
faction. Whatever
-- however it is described, what
does it say
about the power balance there?
KARIM SADJADPOUR: Well, I think
we can't underestimate
the Iranian civil society and
the vast majority
of Iran's 80 million population
that is very
eager for change and
reconciliation with the
outside world.
At the same time, we shouldn't
underestimate
the forces of darkness in Iran,
the supreme
leader of the Revolutionary
Guards, who are
deeply entrenched. They haven't
gone anywhere.
And they actually thrive in
isolation. Rapprochement
with the United States,
international economic
integration would be more of a
threat to them
than continued hostilities.
So, I think that fight will
continue in Iran.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Regardless of
this new deal.
Well, let me pick up on that,
because, Reuel
Gerecht, some people were
surprised that this
nuclear deal was implemented as
quickly as
it was. How do you read that?
Why did Iran
move as relatively quickly as
they did? Or
do you not see it as a
relatively quick implementation?
REUEL MARC GERECHT: No, I think
they moved
quickly. I think people expected
implementation
day to be later, even as late,
say, as July.
They want the money. I mean, I
think that's
pretty clear.
The price of oil keeps dropping.
They need
the money desperately. They have
-- I mean,
they have to afford Syria, the
war in Syria.
They have to -- they spend a lot
of money
in Iraq. They spend some money
in Yemen.
I think you have seen an
accentuation of what
you might call Iranian
imperialism and sectarian
warfare, and they have to
support that. And
then there are also the domestic
needs. I
think one needs to be very
careful about paring
moderates and hard-liners in
Iran. I think,
on this issue, they are marching
more or less
in synch.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Robin Wright,
how do you
see that divide or split as it
exists in Tehran?
ROBIN WRIGHT: Well, it's a very
profound split,
and it's really over the future
course of
the revolution. Is the country,
first and
foremost, an Islamic State, or
is it a modern
republic?
That has been the issue that has
been debated
since the very beginning of the
revolution.
And it will play out again next
month when
Iranians go to the polls. And I
think one
of the reasons in terms of the
timing of when
the nuclear deal and the
prisoners were released
has a lot to do with public
perception at
home, momentum to show that
President Rouhani
has been more effective than
some of the hard-liners.
But we have to remember this is
an opening
to the outside world, but it is
not an opening
inside the country. Today, the
Iranian government,
Guardian Council, which vets all
candidates,
disqualified over 60 percent of
the candidates
who want to run for Parliament
next month.
This is still a very closed
society.
So, we shouldn't have any
illusions that these
very two important steps are
going to change
the political dynamics
significantly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I mean,
that gets me
to the question I wanted to ask
next, Ray
Takeyh. Do we expect Iran to
change as a result
of this, a nuclear deal, the
release of these
prisoners, and the rest of it?
RAY TAKEYH: I think that
certainly, as Karim
was saying, the fear of the
supreme leader
and those around him, that this
particular
opening can presage a moderation
of Iran and
modernization of its politics.
this is why they are
disqualifying the people
that they are. This is why you
have an extraordinary
degree of repression inside the
country today,
because the fear that they have
is an opening
will essentially subvert the
revolution, because
they understand as well as
anyone the dynamics
of their society and the
demographics of their
society. And they essentially
want to close
off those paths.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Karim, what
do we look
for next? I mean, does Iran
change its position
on Syria? I mean, Robin
mentioned Syria. I
mean, they are involved in so
many different
pieces of the very messy puzzle
in the Middle
East right now. What do we
expect to change,
if anything?
KARIM SADJADPOUR: I don't think
Iran's external
policies are going to change.
And at least
in the near term, I think there
is a valid
concern that they will become
even more repressive
domestically to send a signal to
their population,
don't confuse our external
flexibility for
internal weakness.
But I think that these momentous
peace deals
in the Middle East, the
momentous events in
the Middle East really have to
be judged over
a period of many years. And I
think that trying
to crack open Iran, the fact
that it's Iranian
civil society and modern forces
who are happy
about this nuclear deal and the
hard-liners
who are concerned, I think it
increases the
chances, even if small, about
the prospects
for change in Iran.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
the prospects
for change, Reuel Gerecht?
REUEL MARC GERECHT: I think it
is going to
get worse.
I think this nuclear deal is
likely to do
the opposite of what President
Obama hopes
it will do. I think the Iranians
will become
more aggressive in the region.
And I think,
domestically, they will hit very
hard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why?
REUEL MARC GERECHT: Because, as
Karim and
Ray, said, I think the supreme
leader, the
Revolutionary Guard Corps and
many others
really do feel the penetration
of a Western
wedge, that the Western
businessmen come,
et cetera, et cetera. They are
bringing the
plague of Western culture and
the whole regime
will start to unravel.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, are you
saying, on balance,
the nuclear deal and the
prisoner release
were a bad idea?
REUEL MARC GERECHT: Yes. I
think, on balance,
if your objective is to stop
them from developing
a nuclear weapon permanently,
the nuclear
deal is certainly not going to
do that.
What it does at best is kick
down the road
eight to 10 years this question
of the nuclear
-- development of a nuclear
weapon, at best.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
the future Iran?
ROBIN WRIGHT: Well, I actually
think the nuclear
deal was a very important step
and that it
takes the danger of a nuclear
weapon off the
table for a lot longer than
eight to 10 years,
25 years, in some cases, on some
of the most
important issues, and longer,
because Iran
has to sign an agreement.
And if it violates that
agreement any time,
even after 25 years, it's liable
for military
action. The military option is
not off the
table. It is off the table for
now. But this
is still a revolutionary
society. And -- but
it does have interests.
And when it comes to interests,
self-interests,
Iran has taken some practical
steps over the
last week. The big question is,
is it willing
to take more? And it will face a
lot of tests
in -- particularly across the
region. Can
it -- is it willing to walk away
from President
Assad in the name of peace and
stopping the
Islamic State, which has gotten
as close as
25 miles from the Iranian
border?
They are afraid of it too. Can
they solve
-- are they willing to tolerate
some kind
of peace arrangement in Yemen?
What is going
to happen in Iraq? There are
places that we
actually have common interests
with the Iranians
these days, which is a far cry
from the way
it's been for most of the last
40 years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ray Takeyh, do
you anything
positive coming out of this?
RAY TAKEYH: Well, there is a
contest playing
itself out in Iran, two visions.
They are
both impractical.
One is a vision of Ali Khamenei,
namely, Iran
can shield itself from external
influences,
can develop its local economy
and regional
economy as a means of economic
growth, trade
with Iraq, Afghanistan, Central
Asia, and
it doesn't require the Western
commerce.
And there is Hassan Rouhani's
vision, namely,
that we can do a sort of a China
model, have
commerce without democracy. They
both are
impractical visions and neither
one can succeed.
Iran cannot be self-sufficient,
nor can it
essentially insulate itself from
outside influence.
The Islamic Republic today feels
like the
Soviet Union of the 1970s, a
stagnant bureaucratic
state incapable of reforming
itself and presaging
its probable implosion at some
point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're saying
that is going
to change?
RAY TAKEYH: I think that's a
good thing. It's
probably...
(LAUGHTER)
RAY TAKEYH: Now, I don't know
when that is
going to happen, but Islamic
Republic cannot
reform itself. It's too wedded
to its ideology
verities to do so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On balance,
Karim, a good move
over the weekend, what the
Iranians did, or
not?
KARIM SADJADPOUR: I think so.
You know, when you are in this
business, if
are you opposed to something,
you have to
propose a better alternative.
And I think
that we're hard-pressed to come
up with a
better alternative, and we have
to see what
happens.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we will all
be watching.
And I know the four of you,
nobody watching
closer than you, Ray Takeyh,
Karim Sadjadpour,
Robin Wright, Reuel Gerecht, we
thank you.
REUEL MARC GERECHT: Pleasure.
KARIM SADJADPOUR: Thank you,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
impact of
the ongoing gas leak in Los
Angeles; and a
rare recording of Martin Luther
King released
to the public.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, first, two
weeks from
tonight, voters in Iowa will
gather to caucus
and cast the first votes in the
race for president.
Last night, the Democratic
candidates debated
one last time before voting.
"NewsHour" political director
Lisa Desjardins
reports how the tightening race
sparked the
Democrats' most tense debate
yet.
LISA DESJARDINS: The three
Democratic candidates
entered the stage, and a debate,
with substance
and swipes, both.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
This should not be a political
issue.
LISA DESJARDINS: The first
topic, guns, was
close to home for the
Charleston, South Carolina,
crowd, where nine black
churchgoers were killed
by a white gunman in June.
NBC's Lester Holt asked Bernie
Sanders about
his 2005 vote to protect gun
makers and gun
sellers from lawsuits. Sanders
replied he
was now for a bill that would
roll back some
of those protections.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: What we
also said, is
a small mom and pop gun shop who
sells a gun
legally to somebody should not
be held liable
if somebody does something
terrible with that
gun.
So what I said is, I would
re-look at it.
We are going to re-look at it
and I will support
stronger provisions.
LISA DESJARDINS: Hillary Clinton
pounced at
the chance to be to the left of
Sanders.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
He has voted with the NRA, with
the gun lobby
numerous times. He voted against
the Brady
Bill five times. He voted for
what we call
the Charleston loophole. He
voted for immunity
from gun makers and sellers.
LISA DESJARDINS: Third on stage,
and a distant
third in the polls, Martin
O'Malley hit at
both rivals.
MARTIN O'MALLEY (D),
Presidential Candidate:
they've both been inconsistent
when it comes
to this issue.
(LAUGHTER)
MARTIN O'MALLEY: I'm the one
candidate on
this stage that actually brought
people together
to pass comprehensive gun safety
legislation.
LISA DESJARDINS: Another clash
came on health
care. Clinton said political
reality makes
another health care overhaul
impossible right
now, and, instead, President
Obama's Affordable
Care Act must be protected.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: There
are things we
can do to improve it, but to
tear it up and
start over again, pushing our
country back
into that kind of a contentious
debate, I
think, is the wrong direction.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Sanders
insisted the
U.S. should strive to cover
everyone.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: No one is
tearing this
up. We're going to go forward.
But with the
secretary neglected to mention,
not just the
29 million still have no health
insurance,
that even more are underinsured
with huge
co-payments and deductibles.
LISA DESJARDINS: The volleying
came hours
after Sanders released this, an
outline of
his Medicare-for-all plan.
Sanders would replace
the current system, private
insurers, with
a single government-run system.
The price
tag, $1.4 trillion a year, his
campaign says.
Sanders would pay for that a few
ways: Employers
and most taxpayers would each
pay a percentage
of income as a kind of premium.
But the biggest
chunk comes from a sweeping
income tax change.
Sanders would raise rates for
those making
over $250,000. They'd rise to a
52 percent
income tax for the very top,
multimillionaires.
That touched off a dispute over
whether the
middle class would come out
ahead or behind
from the plan.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I'm the
only candidate
standing here tonight who has
said I will
not raise taxes on the middle
class.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: It's one
thing to say
I'm raising taxes. It's another
that we are doing away with
private health
insurance premiums.
LISA DESJARDINS: With each
exchange, the candidates
were fighting to define
themselves and each
other. Sanders pushed his
anti-Wall Street
message and Clinton's donations
from banks.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: It's easy
to say, well,
I'm going to do this and do
that, but I have
doubts when people receive huge
amounts of
money from Wall Street.
LISA DESJARDINS: In her defense,
and through
the night, Clinton clung to
President Obama
more than ever.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: He's
criticized President
Obama for taking donations from
Wall Street,
and President Obama has led our
country out
of the great recession. Senator
Sanders called
him weak, disappointing.
LISA DESJARDINS: The candidates
did talk foreign
policy, but the real divides
were domestic
and sharper than seen before, a
sign of a
tightening race, with voting in
Iowa just
two weeks away.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: With more on last
night's debate
and the race among the
Republican candidates,
for Politics Monday, we turn to
Tamara Keith
of NPR, and, filling in for Amy
Walter, Susan
Page of USA Today.
Welcome to you both.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Thank
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, they didn't
hold back,
Tamara. Did either one of them
land any lasting
blows?
TAMARA KEITH: I think that they
both came
out and they defined themselves
the way that
they wanted to be defined, which
is Hillary
Clinton came out, and she really
was the pragmatic
one, the one who said, you know,
I have fought
this fight, and this is going to
be tough,
and tried to paint Senator
Sanders of idealistic
and out of touch.
Meanwhile, Senator Sanders did a
pretty good
job of painting her as willing
to settle for
less, and why should the U.S. do
what it's
done before and sort of settle
for what the
Washington establishment says is
possible?
I think they both came out and
they were themselves.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Susan?
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today:
Such a different tone from the
previous three
debates.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Really different.
SUSAN PAGE: Remember that first
debate, when
Bernie Sanders said, "We're sick
and tired
of hearing about your damn
e-mails," and they
shook hands and everybody
smiled?
Days of smiling with each other
were over,
two weeks until the Iowa
caucuses, margin
of error races in both Iowa and
New Hampshire.
So you really saw them really
fiercely attacking
one another in ways that we
haven't even before.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Did you think
that anything
that was said did real damage?
SUSAN PAGE: Yes, I do. I think
that the -- that
the -- Bernie Sanders did some
damage to Hillary
Clinton by saying, I have an
idealistic vision
for coverage for all, health
care coverage
for all. That is going to appeal
to voters
who are in the Democratic -- who
vote in Democratic
primaries.
And I thought Hillary Clinton,
by embracing
Barack Obama in a way that she
hasn't done
before, helped her in states
like South Carolina,
where Barack Obama has a 90
percent approval
rating among Democrats in South
Carolina,
and raising issues about the
criticism that
Bernie Sanders has made of Obama
in the past.
So, I think, in that way, both
of them did
some of the damage they came in
intending
to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why, Tamara,
didn't we see
this earlier?
And I ask because there was a --
I think a
New York Times story over the
weekend that
said there are some in the
Clinton camp who
think maybe they should have
gone after Sanders
earlier.
TAMARA KEITH: And it's not clear
to me that
those people are really inside
the Clinton
campaign, as much as maybe
friends of the
Clintons or people in the orbit.
This was inevitable. This race
has gotten
closer. And, also, people are
paying attention
now. I went to a bunch of events
in Iowa last
week. And every voter I met
said, oh, this
is the first campaign event I'm
going to this
cycle. People are paying
attention now and
the candidates are making their
closing arguments.
And it can't be all hugs and
kumbaya at the
very end. They need to define
themselves.
An interesting question for
Bernie Sanders
is, does defining himself, does
trying to
define Hillary Clinton make him
seem more
like a politician? People expect
Hillary Clinton
to be like a politician. It's
not as clear
that people expect Bernie
Sanders to do the
politician thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Susan, how
much is Hillary
Clinton being pulled to the left
by Sanders,
who, as we need remind no one,
has called
himself a Democratic socialist?
SUSAN PAGE: You know, I don't
know if Bernie
Sanders will get the nomination
or not, will
win the war, but -- will win the
battle, but
he's won the war.
Hillary Clinton already has been
pulled significantly
to the left on a whole series of
issues, including
-- including saying she wants to
change the
health care system, even though
she hasn't
really laid out any details on
how she wants
to improve and build on
Obamacare.
On other issues well, she's
including income
inequality and treatment of Wall
Street. We
have seen her pulled to the left
because of
this challenge from Bernie
Sanders.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's talk for a
few minutes
about the Republicans.
If it's getting tougher, Tamara,
on the Democratic
side, it's clearly getting
tougher on the
Republican side between these
two front-runners,
at least in Iowa, Ted Cruz and
Donald Trump.
In that case, is it the same
dynamic at work,
that we're getting close to
voting and it's
just getting nasty as a result?
TAMARA KEITH: We are getting
close to voting.
And Ted Cruz had said he had
sort of predicted
this, that he was going to hug
Donald Trump
until he didn't anymore. Donald
Trump has
not fallen as Ted Cruz sort of
expected him
to. And so he's starting to go
on the attack
and say, hey, look, Donald Trump
isn't a real
conservative. He used to be a
Democrat.
Meanwhile, Donald Trump,
whenever someone
is on his heels, turns around
and begins attacking.
So, this is not a surprise. One
interesting
thing today that sort of gives a
sense of
the state of the race, Donald
Trump was at
Liberty University, the
evangelical university,
giving a speech, and Ted Cruz is
now in New
Hampshire, where Donald Trump
has a solid
lead, on a 17-stop bus tour.
So, they are going -- going for
each other's
strengths there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What -- Susan,
how do you see
this race between the two of
them? Is it really
between the -- is it down to the
two of them
now?
SUSAN PAGE: Well, it's down to
the two of
them to be the front-runner. And
who would
have thought six months ago,
when these people
were announcing, that we would
get two weeks
before the Iowa caucuses and the
two leading
candidates nationwide and in the
first two
states would be Donald Trump and
Ted Cruz?
I don't think any of us would
have predicted
that.
It just shows how remarkable
this race has
been. There's a battle between
the two of
them to be the outsider
candidate who has
-- that have been leading the
field from the
start. There is a second race
going on to
be the surviving establishment
figure, whether
it's John Kasich or Chris
Christie or Jeb
Bush or Marco Rubio, to be the
alternative
once that battle is won.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That separate
lane.
But are the -- do issues matter
at this point,
Tamara? Are voters -- and you
have been talking
to voters in Iowa. I mean, are
they asking
about the candidates' positions,
or is it
who do they like?
TAMARA KEITH: I still think that
it's -- so
much of politics comes down to
who do you
like and who would you like to
have a beer
with some day.
There's certainly an element of
that. I think
that issues matter too. But I
think that there
may not be a really strong cry
for details
and specifics. It is not clear
yet, but it
sure seems like this could be a
passion election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Susan, we
hear, we read,
we understand that Ted Cruz has
a pretty good
campaign organization in Iowa.
How much does
that matter in the final...
SUSAN PAGE: It could really
deliver for him
in Iowa, because Donald Trump
has tried to
build an organization, but Ted
Cruz has the
traditional Iowa organization
that can turn
people out.
But I would just say, look at
what hasn't
mattered this year. Money hasn't
mattered,
or Jeb Bush would be leading. I
don't think
that issues have mattered so
much. It's really
been, who can channel my anger?
Who can shake
things up, especially on the
Republican side?
So, it may be a year in which
organization
matters less. We're just going
to have to
find out in two weeks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And are we
seeing, just quickly,
Tamara, New Hampshire waiting to
see what
Iowa does, or is New Hampshire
already making
up its mind?
TAMARA KEITH: I don't think New
Hampshire
would ever say that they are
waiting to see
what Iowa does.
You know, there is, like, a real
intense campaign
happening there, just as there
is in Iowa,
and especially in the
establishment lane on
the Republican side.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it doesn't
get any more
exciting than this.
But it will be even more
exciting next week.
Tamara Keith, Susan Page, we
thank you.
SUSAN PAGE: Thank you.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we turn to
the natural
gas leak in Southern California.
Earlier this month, Governor
Jerry Brown declared
a state of emergency for
residents of the
Porter Ranch neighborhood of Los
Angeles,
many of whom have been suffering
from health
impacts since the leak began in
late October.
Relief well drilling efforts
continue at the
site, but Southern California
Gas Company,
which owns the well, says it
could be late
February or March before they
are able to
stop all leaks.
Special correspondent Cat Wise
recently visited
Porter Ranch, and she filed this
report.
CAT WISE: On the surface, it
seems a serene,
picturesque Southern California
town, with
gated communities and views. But
Porter Ranch,
which is home to 30,000
residents in Northern
L.A., is anything but serene
these days.
An invisible environmental
disaster is unfolding
in the hills above the
community, where natural
gas, seen in this infrared video
taken by
an environmental group, is now
spewing out
from one the country's largest
underground
gas storage facilities called
Aliso Canyon.
STEVE CONLEY, University of
California, Davis:
This one leak is roughly
equivalent to the
entire Los Angeles Basin. It
will change California's
emissions for the year,
substantially.
CAT WISE: Steve Conley an
atmospheric scientist
with the University of
California, Davis,
owns one of only a handful of
planes in the
country with specialized
equipment that can
measure gas leaks from the air.
For the last several months,
he's been flying
the skies over Porter Ranch to
monitor methane
emissions for the state.
Methane, a greenhouse
gas, is the main component of
natural gas.
And it's extremely potent. It's
more efficient
at trapping radiation and heat
than carbon
dioxide.
STEVE CONLEY: That first flight,
we measured
something like 44,000 kilograms
per hour.
The best number that I have come
up with to
give people a perspective, it's
close to 100,000
pounds an hour. Every month,
it's the weight
of an aircraft carrier.
My first thought was tapping the
instruments,
there's something wrong, because
we have never
seen anything like that on any
of our flights
in the past.
CAT WISE: In recent weeks, as
the Southern
California Gas Company has begun
to drain
the reservoir where gas is
stored, and reduce
the pressure, the amount being
released in
the air has come down by as much
as 60 percent,
according to spokesman Mike
Mizrahi.
But the company is still unclear
why it happened.
MIKE MIZRAHI, Southern
California Gas Company:
We really won't know what caused
the leak
until we're able to stop it.
But we have estimated that,
about 500 feet
down the well, there was a break
through the
encasement around the pipe
that's used to
inject and withdraw gas, and
that natural
gas is seeping through that
encasement, up
through the ground, and then
coming up right
about at the wellhead.
CAT WISE: The well causing all
the havoc was
built in 1953. Like other
natural gas wells
in the area, which are regulated
by the state,
it underwent yearly inspections
and weekly
pressure testing, but the
day-to-day monitoring
was done by personnel who
smelled the air
and listened for the sound of
gas escaping.
And that's how this leak was
discovered.
Much focus has been on a safety
valve that
was removed by the company and
not replaced
back in the late '70s.
MIKE MIZRAHI: The regulations do
not require
that we put valves or sensors
all the way
down. The Department of Oil and
Gas also has
said we were in total compliance
at the time
of this leak. It's speculative
as to whether
a valve in this well would have
made any difference.
CAT WISE: You were in
compliance, and yet,
when public safety, public
health is at risk,
why not exceed that?
MIKE MIZRAHI: Well, in fact, we
have a filing
before the California Public
Utilities Commission
that dates to 2014, where we
will be enhancing
our inspection protocols, as
well as our pressure
testing protocols, that will
hopefully give
us the funding to be able to
move forward.
CAT WISE: The well that is
leaking is about
a mile-and-a-half over that hill
behind me.
Some residents here have no
problems with
the gas, but thousands have been
sickened
by the strong odorants added to
methane to
make it detectable.
Local health officials say there
are no long-term
health impacts, but many
residents remain
concerned. The Cohens are among
those families.
For the past month, they have
been staying
at a hotel about 30 miles from
their home
in Porter Ranch. They decided to
move after
all four of them experienced
health issues
that they attributed to the gas
leak, including
nausea.
They are one of about 4,000
households that
have relocated, or are in the
process of relocating,
to temporary housing paid for by
the gas company.
BRIAN COHEN, California: We're
still kind
of figuring things out as we go.
Everything's
on the fly right now. Our normal
routine is
not there.
STACEY COHEN, California: We
have to make
the best of it. And we have to
be positive
and be there for our children
and for everybody
else in the community.
CAT WISE: On the morning we
caught up with
them, the Cohens were heading
out for 7-year-old's
Weston's (ph) first day back at
school after
the winter break.
But Weston wasn't returning to
his neighborhood
school. He and nearly 2,000
other Porter Ranch
students have been relocated to
two temporary
schools miles away.
L.A. Unified School District got
these portable
classrooms set up in just three
weeks, a project
that would normally take six
months. The costs
so far exceeds $5 million, and
the district
expects that the gas company
will foot the
bill.
All the disruption has been
tough on the community,
according to Paula Cracium,
president of the
Porter Ranch Neighborhood
Council.
PAULA CRACIUM, President, Porter
Ranch Neighborhood
Council: There's this enormous
stain on the
community right now caused by
this leak, and
a stain that's not going to go
away the day
after the leak's fixed,
unfortunately.
Property values have been
enormously impacted.
Small businesses have been
impacted, and the
question is whether or not they
will even
survive.
CAT WISE: Cracium has been a
driving force
in the effort to bring attention
to the leak,
including securing a meeting
with Governor
Jerry Brown that led in part to
his emergency
declaration.
And she is also pushing for
better safety
regulations at Aliso Canyon
going forward.
But she says the long-term
solution isn't
easy, because millions in the
L.A. area depend
on the gas stored there for
their for energy
needs.
PAULA CRACIUM: We can't flip on
a switch and
say no fossil fuels tomorrow. I
mean, that's
just not a realistic approach to
being able
to provide for people and their
needs.
But there's a certain percentage
of the community
that is very confident that it
can be made
safe, and they're comfortable
with it being
up there.
CAT WISE: Resident Matt Pakucko
definitely
isn't comfortable with the wells
above his
home. Pakucko, who is a music
producer with
a recording studio in his
garage, is the co-founder
of a group called Save Porter
Ranch. They
have been advocating that the
entire storage
facility be closed, even before
the leak started.
As we talked, the wind blew in
the gas.
MATT PAKUCKO, Save Porter Ranch:
You can smell
the gas right now, right?
CAT WISE: I do smell it.
MATT PAKUCKO: Nice breeze and
gas.
People are smelling gas and oil
outside their
homes in these neighborhoods. It
has been
going on for years and decades.
You can't
have this -- these kind of
things next to
residential neighborhoods. They
say that,
even if we had that safety
valve, it may not
prevent this. Are you telling us
that you
can't stop a well blowout? Shut
the place
down.
CAT WISE: For scientist Steve
Conley, the
priority is better monitoring of
future leaks.
STEVE CONLEY: As long as we are
relying on
fossil fuels, as long as we have
houses that
are using natural gas, we have
to have a storage
system. We have to store it.
And if we store it, we're going
to have leaks.
One of the things I feel like we
have learned
from this is that, nationally,
we should have
a system in place to rapidly
respond to these
kind of events, because they're
going to happen.
CAT WISE: Back at the hotel, the
Cohen family
and another displaced Porter
Ranch family
are hoping it doesn't happen
again, and that
they can go home soon.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Cat
Wise in Porter
Ranch, California.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The case in
Southern California
is dramatic, but not unique.
Experts say that
many smaller and mid-size leaks
occur across
the country, and while not as
huge, combined,
can add up to serious
environmental damage.
You can read more of that
research on our
home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Finally, our "NewsHour" Shares
of the day,
something that caught our eye
that we thought
Finally, our "NewsHour" Shares
of the day,
something that caught our eye
that we thought
might be of interest to you too.
In honor of Martin Luther King
Jr. Day, the
Nobel Prize Foundation released
the full audio
recording of his 1964 Peace
Prize acceptance
speech.
Here is an excerpt:
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., Civil
Rights Leader:
We have learned to fly the air
like birds
and swim the sea like fish, but
we have not
learned the simple art of living
together
as brothers.
Every man lives in two realms,
the internal
and the external. The internal
is that realm
of spiritual ends expressed in
art, literature,
morals, and religion. The
external is that
complex of devices,
And in the hearts of men, we
will come to
that great and glad day when men
all over
the world will be able to join
hands, black
and men and white men, Jews and
gentiles,
Protestants and Catholics,
Hindus and Muslims,
and sing in the words of the old
Negro spiritual,
free at last, free at last.
Thank God all
mighty, we are free at last.
Thank you.
(APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: A speech we don't
often hear,
those words particularly
relevant now.
On the "NewsHour" online: For
poet Ashlee
Haze, having black female role
models makes
all the difference to young
girls like her.
So she penned a poem and
dedicated it to one
of her heroes, rapper Missy
Elliott. The songwriter
was touched, and actually
surprised Haze with
a visit to her home.
You can hear the poem that
inspired it all
on our home page,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Tuesday, we begin our series
exploring
the roots of autism.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.